So how can we go back from let's say our place detail page?
Now one easy way of course is to add an ion back button,
do you remember how that worked?
You don't just add it like this, you instead wrap it into ion buttons where you should set the slot to
start which positions it
most of the time on the left but start really depends on the device you're running on and also in the
region settings but wrapped in there, you now add your ion back button and that ion back button now
by default,
well takes you back.
Now let me also adjust the title here a little bit,
we can later display the actual title of the place we loaded,
for now I'll just at least set it to this a little bit nicer looking title and now when we go to a
page, we do have the back button and it does take us back.
Now one problem we have is when we reload this page, we don't have the back button because Ionic detects
that it doesn't know where to take us.
As this page reloaded, the app restarted and therefore this stack of pages is removed,
it's cleared,
that's just how Javascript works, if you reload the app restarts and all the other memory or what you
had in memory is lost and therefore Ionic can't really go back because it doesn't know which page came
before this page
and that is why on the ion back button, you can add that default the ref attribute, by the way you could
also add default ref like this and set this to the path
you want to go to in case Ionic doesn't know where to go to
and then that would be in our case places tabs discover. And if you add this now, when display detail
page reloads which is of course a reasonable scenario in a web app where you can load any page by entering
the right URL,
now we have the back button here too.
However, doesn't work right? Well that's just the thing here in Angular.
There you indeed have to use default ref like this, default ref with a slash in between works if you're
using Ionic components in a vanilla Javascript application, when using the Angular one, it should be default
ref like this in camel case
notation and now with that, that will reload and then this button will take us back.
Here we go.
How else could we go back when we're on this page?
Let's say on place detail, we do have our bookings button to book this place.
So in there, I'll add an ion button and put just book onto it as label and give it a color of primary,
something like that and maybe add a little margin around this button with the margin
CSS utility attribute.
Now we should see a nice button on the page as it reloads,
here it is
and this button when we tap it of course does nothing at the moment.
It can't because we haven't added any logic, so
let's add a click listener and there I'll execute onBookPlace.
Now later we'll open a modal there which will later then allow us to add our user details for booking
that place, for the moment
I just want to execute this method,
so let's add onBookPlace here to the Typescript file and in onBookPlace at the moment,
I just want to go back.
Now we have a couple of different options for going back,
one of them is that we inject the Angular router.
We do it like this,
import router from
@angular/router and with that injected here, we can call this router navigate and then enter the
URL to
which we want to navigate
like places tabs discover, like that, should be navigate by URL if you're using a full URL,
otherwise you have to pass in an array with all the segments. With that if this app reloads and I click book,
we go there.
Now what you noticed and that by the way is also still the case on the back button if we reload,
it's playing the wrong animation, it plays the animation it normally plays when adding a page, where the
page slides up from the bottom.
It should play this down sliding animation but when this page is reloaded, even for the back button, it
placed the wrong one.
Now that you'll just be a bug with the back button
but for our own navigation, it's not a bug,
instead Ionic by default plays the forward animation if it doesn't know what the previous page was, if there
is no previous page on the stack because it correctly assumes that any navigation you're doing with
an empty stack of pages is a forward navigation and hence it doesn't know it should actually play the backward
animation for this navigation. For the book button when we do go back,
it should though
and here, the nav controller can help us.
You inject it like this, simply by referencing nav controller as a type and that is imported from @ionic/angular
so it's important to add this import and now the nav controller can be used for navigating around.
You can use this nav controller and then here, you have navigate back and navigate forward methods and
navigate back then takes either an array with these different segments or just a URL to recipes,
not recipes, to places tabs discover. And now the difference is under the hood,
this will use the Angular router, so this doesn't use any fancy new Ionic router, it uses the Angular router
but it set some internal metadata or configuration so that the right animation is played.
So now if I click book, this plays the back animation here instead of the forward navigation. Another way
of navigating back is to use the nav controller and call the pop method there, this will pop the last page
of the stack.
Now this has one problem though,
let me show you what the problem is.
Let's wait for this app to reload and if I go forward and I click book,
I go backward,
perfect.
Now let's say we loaded this detail page as our first page,
so I reload the page
whilst I'm on that. If I now click book,
this does not work because popping doesn't work if the stack of pages is empty.
So this is unreliable
if you can't guarantee there that there is something on the stack of pages. If you can guarantee that
though because it is a page which doesn't really have a route people will use to start into your app
or something like that, then you can use that as well,
otherwise simply use this mechanism.
The advantage of pop of course would have been that we don't need to specify the path we
want to go to but the disadvantage of course is that we have to guarantee that there is a previous page.